this is a little deadly 60 experiment
and all I've got to save me his sorrows
magical nose hi guys hello okay should I
climb in yeah
okay how I gots a camera to take in with
me very much
okay guys this is all a bit scary
let's just hope that that dog's nose is
as good as they say right very me guys
they've assured me that I'll be totally
safe under here in my snow cave but that
doesn't make me feel any less nervous as
they shovel in the snow block out the
light and everything goes quiet
okay so now I'm buried alive she's all
pretty spooky and very very cold um
obviously if this is a real Avalanche I
wouldn't have any space in here at all
and that would be very frightening I
hope that dog comes quick
above ground sorrow and a handler of
course in but the clock is ticking as
Avalanche is settled the snow sets hard
like concrete so a real victim could be
injured crushed and out of air so it's
down to dogs like sorrow to save the day
just died for the sound of some
scrabbling paws overhead the dogs are
trained to zigzag back and forth trying
to pick up the scent of a buried person
but sorrows got to search this entire
hillside a well-trained sniffer dogs
nose can distinguish between the smell
of people who've walked over the snow
and the faintest trace of a person
hidden even ten meters beneath it by
searching for human scent drifting up
through the snow and then digging down
towards the source here's something I
think I might have been found
dogs use powerful snips to draw in
smells and the part of their brain that
deals with smell is much more developed
than ours
hey I say yeah hello come on
hello rescue this get out
where's my Savior come on in come on it
can't won that remarkable nose just
sniff me out under the snow is exactly
the same kind of nose as you'll find
throughout the dog family and on a wolf
it'll be used to track down its prey